# Paper-Parameter optimization for LPBF
---
"A data-driven framework to improve the wear resistance of a low-alloy steel fabricated by laser powder bed fusion" by Jiahui Zhang, Sagar Patel, Zhiying Liu, Tianyi Lyu, Yuhao Wang, Yujie Hua, Wandong Wang, Jason Hattrick-Simpers, Mihaela Vlasea, Yu Zou. The abstract of the paper is as follows:

>"The laser powder bed fusion (LPBF) technique provides an opportunity to precisely control process parameters and produce materials with desired microstructure, which play an important role in developing wear-resistance components. An accurate and efficient determination of the optimal process window for new materials, however, remains a highly sought yet challenging task due to a high experimental cost by trial and error. In this study, we demonstrate a physics-informed data-driven framework to create a 3D process map and optimize printing parameters (i.e., laser power (P), scan speed (v), and hatch distance (h)) for a newly designed low-alloy steel. First, we establish a highly precise P-v process map by thoroughly exploring kernel selection and parameter hyper-tuning in Gaussian process regression (GPR) models. Subsequently, we employ the Bayesian optimization (BO) algorithm with different exploration-exploitation trade-offs to automatically explore all feasible optimized printing recipes within the process map. To efficiently incorporate a third printing parameter (h) alongside P and v with limited additional data points, we integrate a physics-informed pre-analysis and an inverse design strategy. We show that the samples fabricated by our optimized parameters exhibit improvement in relative density and retain a high hardness, resulting in a superior wear rate compared to those produced using non-optimized parameters. Furthermore, our samples outperform LPBF-fabricated steels and metal matrix composites in the literature, which is attributed to the existence of oxidative and fatigue wear. Our study offers a systematic and accurate data-driven approach to design and optimize microstructures and properties of materials made by LPBF."

## Data:
For this study, 16 different widely used commercial plasma atomized metal powders (AP&C, Canada) were chosen for SEM imaging. For each powder, about 28–40 images were collected with a size of 1280*960 pixels in 150 × magnification and split into four images for each, totally yielding a dataset of 2,212 SEM images. The dataset of segmented keyhole images can be made available upon reasonable request to J. Zhang. 

## Description:
All the models are trained via MATLAB 2021. The vlfeat toolbox can be found and downloaded at http://www.vlfeat.org/.
